# DSC-680
#### Project 2 
Cardiovascular diseases are the number one cause of death globally, taking an estimated of 17.9 million lives each year, which accounts for 31% of all deaths worldwide. Heart failure occurs when the heart cannot pump enough blood to meet the needs of the body. Machine learning applied to medical records, in particular, can be an effective tool both to predict the survival of each patient having heart failure symptoms (Latha, 2019), and to detect the most important clinical features (or risk factors) that may lead to heart failure (Lawler, 2019). Scientists can take advantage of machine learning not only for clinical prediction, but also for feature ranking. The incorporation of machine learning and data science has the potential to impact on clinical practice in the health care field, becoming a new supporting tool for physicians when predicting if a heart failure patient will survive or not. Indeed, medical doctors aiming at understanding if a patient will survive after heart failure may focus mainly on serum creatinine and ejection fraction (Chicco, 2020). This project seeks to analyze and understand to see if we can create a predictive modeling to know when a patient will have a heart failure disease based on their given health attributes. It furthers test different machine learning models to find the most suitable predictive model.

The dataset used in this project is publicly available on Kaggle website and can be access through the link provided: [Kaggle link](https://www.kaggle.com/andrewmvd/heart-failure-clinical-data)
